what-next.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: What next?
permalink: /what-next/
---

Congratulations on building your first website! We suggest you keep practicing the things you've learned today on your own, either by improving the website you've built today or by building new projects with Jekyll.

You'll also learn a lot by looking at how other people create their projects. This tutorial was also written in Jekyll. Go ahead and explore its code <a href="{{ site.repository }}" target="_blank">on GitHub</a>. You can download the code and run the website on your computer. Feel free to play around with it!

But the best way to learn new coding skills is to set practical goals (for example: "I want to sort pages alphabetically") and using Google to find tips (for example: "Jekyll sort pages alphabetically"). The <a href="http://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/" target="_blank">Jekyll Documentation</a> also includes more information and samples that can help you improve your website. 

Don't be discouraged if the links and answers you find are full or gibberish you don't yet understand. It takes time and practice to become familiar with new concepts. Just keep playing around with your website every day, and eventually things will start making sense.

# Ready for more programming?

Once you're ready for more complex projects, you can try other frameworks that allow you to build even more powerful dynamic web apps. For that, we recommend the <a href="http://guides.railsgirls.com/" target="_blank">Rails Girls</a> and <a href="http://tutorial.djangogirls.org/en/index.html" target="_blank">Django Girls</a> tutorials. The main difference between the two is that one uses Rails, a Ruby-based framework, and the other Django, a Python-based framework. 

Ruby and Python are both programming languages. They are quite similar and beginner-friendly, both can help you build great things. We recommend searching for friends and meetups in your area, and choosing the language that has the best community support around you.

Good luck and don't be afraid of making mistakes and being confused by new things. We all have to start somewhere, and even the best programmers are still constantly learning new things every day, making typos, and decrypting strange errors. It's part of the process and it's why programming can be such a rewarding activity. There's no better feeling than making your code work after hours or even days of making errors and searching for solutions!

Commit message:

expanded what next with jekyll themes and some emphasis

what-next.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: What next?
permalink: /what-next/
---

Congratulations on building your first website! **We suggest you keep practicing the things you've learned today on your own**, either by improving the website you've built today or by building new projects with Jekyll.

**You'll also learn a lot by looking at other's people projects** and trying to understand how they made something work. This tutorial was also written in Jekyll. Go ahead and explore its code <a href="{{ site.repository }}" target="_blank">on GitHub</a>. You can download the code and run the website on your computer. Feel free to play around with it!

<a href="http://jekyllthemes.org/" target="_blank">Jekyll Themes</a> is another great website, where you can download sample Jekyll projects with a wide range of design templates you can experiment with and learn from.

But the best way to learn new coding skills is to **set practical goals** (for example: "I want to sort pages alphabetically") and using Google to find tips (for example: "Jekyll sort pages alphabetically"). The <a href="http://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/" target="_blank">Jekyll Documentation</a> also includes more information and samples that can help you improve your website. 

**Don't be discouraged** if the links and answers you find are full or gibberish you don't yet understand. It takes time and practice to become familiar with new concepts. Just keep playing around with your website every day, and eventually things will start making sense.


# Ready for more programming?

Once you're ready for more complex projects, you can try other frameworks that allow you to build even more powerful dynamic web apps. For that, we recommend the <a href="http://guides.railsgirls.com/" target="_blank">Rails Girls</a> and <a href="http://tutorial.djangogirls.org/en/index.html" target="_blank">Django Girls</a> tutorials. The main difference between the two is that one uses Rails, a Ruby-based framework, and the other Django, a Python-based framework. 

Ruby and Python are both programming languages. They are quite similar and beginner-friendly, both can help you build great things. We recommend searching for friends and meetups in your area, and choosing the language that has the best community support around you.

Good luck and **don't be afraid of making mistakes and being confused by things you don't understand**. We all have to start somewhere, and even the best programmers are still constantly learning new things every day, making typos, and decrypting strange errors. It's part of the process and it's why programming can be such a rewarding activity. There's no better feeling than making your code work after hours or even days of making errors and searching for solutions!
